readme.md, before:

# Project Readme
## List of __[Starsky](readme.md)__ Projects
 * [inotify-settings](inotify-settings/readme.md) _to setup auto indexing on linux_
 * [starsky (sln)](starsky/readme.md) _database photo index & import index project_
    * [starsky](starsky/starsky/readme.md) _web api application / interface_
      *  [clientapp](starsky/starsky/clientapp/readme.md) _react front-end application_
    * [starskySyncCli](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md)  _database command line interface_
    * [starskyImporterCli](starsky/starskyimportercli/readme.md)  _import command line interface_
    * [starskyGeoCli](starsky/starskygeocli/readme.md)  _gpx sync and reverse 'geo tagging'_
    * [starskyWebHtmlCli](starsky/starskywebhtmlcli/readme.md)  _publish web images to a content package_
    * [starskyWebFtpCli](starsky/starskywebftpcli/readme.md)  _copy a content package to a ftp service_
    * [starskyAdminCli](starsky/starskyadmincli/readme.md)  _manage user accounts_
    * [Starsky Business Logic](starsky/starskybusinesslogic/readme.md) _business logic libraries (netstandard 2.0)_
    * [starskyTest](starsky/starskytest/readme.md)  _mstest unit tests_
 * [starsky.netframework](starsky.netframework/readme.md) _Client for older machines_
 * [starsky-tools](starsky-tools/readme.md) _nodejs tools to add-on tasks_
 * [starskyapp](starskyapp/readme.md) _Desktop Application (Pre-alpha code)_

# What is Starsky?
Accelerator to find and organize images driven by meta information. Browse and search images in your own cloud. Starsky is the name of the Starsky DAM (Digital asset management) system that runs as a cloud service. You could add how to add users, set up your archives, upload content, control metadata requirements, share content and more.

## Demo app
There is a online demo of the Starsky Application. You can create unlimited accounts but all input and data will be deleted after restarting. Heroku quits the application after 30 minutes of inactivity. Email addresses in the demo environment are not stored. [Starsky Demo App Account Register](https://starskydemo.herokuapp.com/account/register)

## Project Readme   

### Install instructions for the server
This section deals with how to set up a Starsky system on-premises. You will find guides to all Starsky software for installation on-premises here.

### General Project
The general application is Starsky (sln). You need to [install the solution](starsky/readme.md) first.

### Command line tools
The command tools to sync the database manually use [Sync CLI](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md) to generate thumbnail use [Sync CLI](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md). The [Importer CLI](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md)  can be used to copy files in a folder structure based on the creation datetime. The datetime structure can be configured.

To reverse geo code location information in images use the UI or the [Geo CLI](starsky/starskygeocli/readme.md). Use your photo to track location and match this with your camera.With this tool you add a location trail (gpx) to a folder and match the datetime to images in the folder.

To publish files generate markup and images with a logo use the [Web Html CLI](starsky/starskywebhtmlcli/readme.md). This publish web images to a content package. And when this is done you could copy a content package to a ftp service.

All these projects are separately compiled using the build script and using the same `appsettings` configuration.

## Build status

### Windows 2019 with VS2019
[![Build Status](https://qdraw.visualstudio.com/starsky/_apis/build/status/azure-pipelines-starsky?branchName=master)](https://qdraw.visualstudio.com/starsky/_build/latest?definitionId=17&branchName=master)

_See `./azure-pipelines-starsky.yml` for details_

## Changelog and history of this project

There is a version log and backlog available on the [history and changelog page](history.md)

### Sonarqube
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Bugs](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=bugs)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Code Smells](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=code_smells)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Reliability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=reliability_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)

Commit message:

[docs] make readme more clear

readme.md, after:

# Project Readme
## List of __[Starsky](readme.md)__ Projects
 * [inotify-settings](inotify-settings/readme.md) _to setup auto indexing on linux_
 * [starsky (sln)](starsky/readme.md) _database photo index & import index project_
    * [starsky](starsky/starsky/readme.md) _web api application / interface_
      *  [clientapp](starsky/starsky/clientapp/readme.md) _react front-end application_
    * [starskySyncCli](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md)  _database command line interface_
    * [starskyImporterCli](starsky/starskyimportercli/readme.md)  _import command line interface_
    * [starskyGeoCli](starsky/starskygeocli/readme.md)  _gpx sync and reverse 'geo tagging'_
    * [starskyWebHtmlCli](starsky/starskywebhtmlcli/readme.md)  _publish web images to a content package_
    * [starskyWebFtpCli](starsky/starskywebftpcli/readme.md)  _copy a content package to a ftp service_
    * [starskyAdminCli](starsky/starskyadmincli/readme.md)  _manage user accounts_
    * [Starsky Business Logic](starsky/starskybusinesslogic/readme.md) _business logic libraries (netstandard 2.0)_
    * [starskyTest](starsky/starskytest/readme.md)  _mstest unit tests_
 * [starsky.netframework](starsky.netframework/readme.md) _Client for older machines_
 * [starsky-tools](starsky-tools/readme.md) _nodejs tools to add-on tasks_
 * [starskyapp](starskyapp/readme.md) _Desktop Application (Pre-alpha code)_

## What is Starsky?
> [Check the introduction page to learn more about the scope of the application](index.md)

## Demo app
Starsky has a demo application online. To get started make a temperary account
> [Starsky Demo App Account Register](https://starskydemo.herokuapp.com/account/register)

## Project Readme   

### Install instructions for the server
This section deals with how to set up a Starsky system on-premises. You will find guides to all Starsky software for installation on-premises here.

### General Project
The general application is Starsky solution (sln). You need to [install the solution](starsky/readme.md) first.

### Command line tools
The command tools to sync the database manually use [Sync CLI](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md) to generate thumbnail use [Sync CLI](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md). The [Importer CLI](starsky/starskysynccli/readme.md)  can be used to copy files in a folder structure based on the creation datetime. The datetime structure can be configured.

To reverse geo code location information in images use the UI or the [Geo CLI](starsky/starskygeocli/readme.md). Use your photo to track location and match this with your camera.With this tool you add a location trail (gpx) to a folder and match the datetime to images in the folder.

To publish files generate markup and images with a logo use the [Web Html CLI](starsky/starskywebhtmlcli/readme.md). This publish web images to a content package. And when this is done you could copy a content package to a ftp service.

All these projects are separately compiled using the build script and using the same `appsettings` configuration.

## Build status

### Windows 2019 with VS2019
[![Build Status](https://qdraw.visualstudio.com/starsky/_apis/build/status/azure-pipelines-starsky?branchName=master)](https://qdraw.visualstudio.com/starsky/_build/latest?definitionId=17&branchName=master)

_See `./azure-pipelines-starsky.yml` for details_

## Changelog and history of this project

There is a version log and backlog available on the [history and changelog page](history.md)

### Sonarqube
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Bugs](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=bugs)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Code Smells](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=code_smells)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
[![Reliability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=starsky&metric=reliability_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=starsky)
